hi my name is Alison I'm a physical
therapist here at chop Children's
Hospital and I am here to talk to you a
little bit about what to expect after
your surgery teach you show you how to
get out of bed some things that you're
supposed to do and not supposed to do
and make sure that we can get you ready
to go home so the first day after
surgery when you made the therapists
they are going to instruct you in
precautions precautions are things that
you are supposed to avoid doing to
protect the surgery so that your back
will stay straight as you go home the
three things that you're not supposed to
do after surgery are bending lifting and
twisting to show you an example of this
when you're in bed and your knees are
bent you cannot let your knees fall to
the side and keep your back straight
because that's twisting your back so you
actually have to be able to roll your
entire body as one unit so your back
stays straight the entire time the next
thing that you will learn is how to set
up at the edge of the bed and how to
move in bed we're going to teach you
what is called a log roll and this is a
way to move to keep your spine
completely straight after surgery we
teach you this method so that you will
be able to get up in your bed at home
without the use of the rails or the bed
coming up to do this we're going to
start by bending your knees one at a
time with your knees bent you're going
to roll your entire body at one time
once you're on your side your therapist
will help you swing your legs off the
end and then come up to a sitting
position right at the edge of the bed
once you're sitting at the edge of the
bed your therapist will have you sit
there for a few minutes to get your
bearings make sure that you're not dizzy
and that your stomach is feeling okay
next we're going to teach you how to
come to a standing position
sometimes the transition going from
sitting to standing
be painful but if you push yourself
through it and stand all the way up and
tuck your hips underneath you you'll
actually feel better when you're ready
to stand your therapist is going to have
you scoot forward so your feet are flat
on the ground with your feet flat on the
ground you're going to lean forward
slightly and push through your legs
until your hips are underneath you and
you're all the way standing up after
you're standing up your therapist is
going to show you how to get into a
chair this is going to be the same
technique you're going to use if you're
going to sit on the toilet once you're
standing you're going to take a step
turn your entire body as one and as you
go to sit down you're going to bend your
knees reach your hands back and slowly
sit down before you go home we'll make
sure that you can walk and do stairs if
necessary and that your family will be
able to help you with whatever you need
and if you have any questions make sure
that you ask your therapist they'd be
more than happy to teach you all the
things that you need to know before you
go home